High Velocity Clouds (HVCs) are a likely source of circumgalactic medium (CGM) associated with our own Galaxy, and have been posited to represent a fuel source for both past and future Galactic star formation. Numerous ultraviolet studies have probed the CGM of other galaxies down to HI columns of N(HI)< 10^13 cm^2, but a similar survey of HI in Galactic HVCs has proven difficult due to confusion with ISM disk gas. 

I will present initial results from the deepest-to-date HI absorption survey of high velocity clouds in the Milky Way halo. We have performed multi-component Voigt-profile fits to the complete HI Lyman series for a sample of 67 archival sightlines originally observed with the Far-Ultraviolet Spectroscopic Explorer. This process allows us to constrain the column density distribution  of absorption down to N(HI) ~ 10^14 cm^2, nearly 4 orders of magnitude deeper than results from 21cm absorption studies. I will discuss the resulting sky covering fraction, the spatial distribution of absorption, and the column density distribution of Galactic HI, together with a comparison of how these results fit within the context of extragalactic CGM surveys.


----


High Velocity Clouds (HVCs) are a likely source of circumgalactic medium (CGM) associated with our own Galaxy, and have been posited to represent a fuel source for both past and future Galactic star formation. Numerous ultraviolet studies have probed the CGM of other galaxies down to HI columns of N(HI)< 10^13 cm^2, but a similar survey of HI in Galactic HVCs has proven difficult due to confusion with ISM disk gas. However, we are now tackling this problem by performing multi-component Voigt-profile fits to the complete HI Lyman series for a sample of 67 archival sightlines originally observed with the Far-Ultraviolet Spectroscopic Explorer. This simultaneous fitting of both high and low-order Lyman lines allows us to separate the high-velocity absorption components from intervening low-velocity ISM, and thus allows us to constrain the column density distribution of absorption down to N(HI) ~ 10^14 cm^2, nearly 4 orders of magnitude deeper than results from 21cm absorption studies. I will present initial results from this, the deepest-to-date HI absorption survey of high velocity clouds in the Milky Way halo. I will discuss the resulting sky covering fraction, the spatial distribution of absorption, and the column density distribution of Galactic HI, together with a comparison of how these results fit within the context of extragalactic CGM surveys.


----- Final



The HI content of HVCs have been well studied in 21 cm emission down to N(HI) ~ 10^18 cm^2, but a metal-independent survey 


While well studied in 21 cm emission down to N(HI) ~ 10^18 cm^2, we do not yet have an accurate measure of the total HI content independent of 

a fully metal-independent census of 


Despite being well studied in 21 cm emission, a fully metal-independent census of the HI content has 

but a metal-independent survey



Ultraviolet studies have probed the CGM of other galaxies down to HI columns of N(HI)< 10^13 cm^2, but a complimentary survey of HI in Galactic HVCs has proven difficult due to confusion with ISM disk gas. 


The HI Column Density Distribution of High Velocity Clouds


High Velocity Clouds (HVCs) trace the circumgalactic medium (CGM) of our own Galaxy, and represent a fuel source for both past and future Galactic star formation. Ultraviolet studies have probed the CGM of other galaxies many orders of magnitude more deeply than our own, as a complementary survey of HI in Galactic HVCs has proven difficult due to confusion with ISM disk gas. However, we are now tackling this problem by performing multi-component Voigt-profile fits to the complete HI Lyman series for a sample of 67 archival sightlines originally observed with the Far-Ultraviolet Spectroscopic Explorer. This simultaneous fitting of both high and low-order Lyman lines allows us to separate the high-velocity absorption components from intervening low-velocity ISM in a metal-independent way, and thus allows us to constrain the column density distribution of baryons in the Milky Way halo down to N(HI) ~ 10^14 cm^2, nearly 4 orders of magnitude deeper than results from 21 cm emission studies. I will present initial results from this, the deepest-to-date HI absorption survey of high velocity clouds in the Milky Way halo. Furthermore, I will discuss the resulting sky covering fraction and the spatial distribution of absorption, together with a comparison of how these results fit within the context of extragalactic CGM surveys.



